Bubblegum

Infinite Inflation
Seems alright.
2nd skill is kind of boring.
4th skill seems really cool. you can gain a ton of shield
Honestly a really boring card. So should probably get and update
somewhere

Pop
Why the fuck is there Deal 2 Dmg 2 times
4th skill is cool but should probably get moved up.
Needs a more exciting skill somewhere. Maybe ill rework this
immediately its really bad.

Vulcanize
Has a really obvious combo but its kinda cool.
Could maybe be exciting with more Bubblegum shit.
seems alright enough for now

Stretched taut
Last skill is cool.
This card really has no blowup potential.
boring card. Needs a rework on some skills


Handy Plasticity
Cool defensive weapon. Not a big blowup potential.
But still cool enough for now I think

Bounce Back
Last skill is nice. Card is probably alright enough

Will to live
Great card. I love it. Its just cool when it works.
It has Once Deal 2 Dmg and once Deal 3Dmg.
Honestly there should be something cooler than this I feel like.
One boring just deal dmg skill seems alright.
But 2 of these is kinda wonky.

Bubble trouble
No big boom on this card. 1st skill is nice.
3rd skill should probably be:
Increment dice by the amount of DMG you take from the next ability.If you Increment above 6 gain a new dice that adds up the value.
something like that would make that skill actually cool and could elevate it from seeing usage in about 1/10000 to maybe 1/100.
Could get cool moments

Candy coat
Yikes. This card is boring.
3rd skill is a bubblegum hard counter other than that it
has nothing going for it.

Candy bash
yeah 3rd skill can do some damage. kinda weird tho on this card
having the 1st skill as a little 3rd skill.
This card cant popoff on its own but can blowup in combos.
good stuff


Overall review:
Bubblegum is really lacking in identity.
Every card seems solid enough but there really is not that much exciting going on.
We are "violating" a ton of rosewater lessons here:
Lesson #10: Leave room for the player to explore. 
There is almost nothing to explore except gaining shield and doing damage.
Lesson #11: If everyone likes your game, but no one loves it, it will fail
Who is going to love these cards?
Lesson #13: Make the fun part also the correct strategy to win
Dealing 5 times 2 DMG is definitely not fun
Lesson #16: Be more afraid of boring your players than challenging them
Im bored even reading a lot of these cards to be honest.

I think Bubblegum should lean more into shield gameplay.
There are some cards that try to do something interesting with shield. But most of them do not go far enought. Shield for bubblegum could be more of a resouce waiting to be used up from creatures and skills. Right now it just sits there.
Shield also has the big problem where once you have shield you do not want to attack because you might loose it.
This goes complete against Lesson #13. Yes sometimes defending and stonewalling can be fun. But really bro I want to attack and do big damage. 
Bubblegum creatures are also a bit dull so going more in that direction could be a great change. Onto crystal.

Crystal

All out offense
This card does what it says. Damage.
Also there is no "boring" damage skill on this everything does something else as well.
As it stands this card could loose one DMG skill.
Probably the 2nd one to gain a non damage skill.
Other than that great. I like dealing 20 damage. Great card

Windbreaker
This card does not have a clear through line and is all over the place in its design.
Its individual skills seem interesting enough tho.
There are cards more in need of a rework than this one.
Its probably fine.

Energetic Restructuring
Setting up Energetic Restructuring into a beam cannon is big bucks damage. Definitely big potential and hate card. Maybe last skill is too strong. But then we could just add another dice cost of X.
I can combo with this so I like this card.

Crystalleye
2 times just dealing damage. Fucking boring.
Needs rework now! Last skill is dope. No big popoff but alright enough

Fracture wrap
Shatter all dice is great. However this card has no way of doing anything with that. So maybe I shatter all my dice and then thats it.
Needs something a bit different on there

Splintering Impact
Not a fan. Needs Rework?
1st and 2nd skill together probably violate this one: Lesson #5: Don't confuse "interesting" with "fun"
Uhhhh bro look at how my stats are different when I require 2 4s instead of a pair.

Crystallize
What the fuck is up with this card. Im falling asleep over here.
Gain +1 fortitude is insanely strong.

Mirroring Minerals
Just played this card. 1st skill is fun. 3rd skill is hard to activate. This card I feel like gives you enough to do. 1st skill can do some cool stuff. However I think 95% of the time you will just take a DMG skill from your opponent. Maybe this card needs a bigger damage impact skill.
But there are more pressing cards. This cards shines compared to some off them

Carbonado Finish
Not that exciting for me. Nothing too crazy on there. 
Not a rework right now but probably in the next iteration.
Well see how the other cards shape up.

Cairgroom Morningstar
Third skill is kinda wonky and not usable that often.
Hmm this card got some clear ideas but destroying 2 Shield for 2 dice does seem like a really bad deal.

Overall review.
Crystals identity is frail but highly aggressive. Some cards got some nice blocking features. Its identity feels very present to me. 
However its missing a little bit more spice. Crystal has SHATTER 
as a mechanic but it does not do that much with it.


Plasma

Supercharge
Hmmmm. An ape could understand this card. 
Giving stun 3 for 3 3 3 is cool and the "big" breakout on the card. 
It should probably be able to do something with stun

Fluctuating charge
Another "charge" card. This one is already scheduled for a rework.
Boring. Last skill is cool

Friction Welding
I love it when FUSE does shit like this. Could we go somewhere else with this idea an FUSE?
2 times deal 2 Dmg is kinda meh to be honest. This card is missing its identity. Its individual are alright tho.
Not an immediate rework candidate

Down the current
Not a lot too see here. Card please do something cool.

Frantic overload
It does something nice with stun. 
Deal 1 Dmg and deal 3 Dmg is kinda meh
Definitely good enough for now.

Pole Reversal
Scheduled for rework. 3Dmg skills are just bad.
Still unsure about the last skill, but definitely want to see it in action. Might be broken.

ZZZZZZZZZZZ
Hmm Does not do anything too crazy.

Thunder
Im torn on this card. It is the only card where you have this
kind of RNG. Probably stupid, but it really does get "exciting"
moments. But honestly it should probably be reworked. Loosing
to this just sucks. 

Short Circuit
Powerful plasma card. I really like it. Not that strong on its 
but if you get the right cards it can get crazy.

Pure Energy
Fun effect. Having 2 times just plain DMG on there sucks.

Overall review:
Having cards that take stun in order to get a cool effect now is nice. Its like going in debt with dice.
FUSE and stun are both mechanics I like out. However plasma does not seem to do that much with them.
Overall Plasma does DMG and then it can stun and FUSE.
However the designs do not really click for me. 
Really alright to sometimes cool designs in here.
Definitely needs a lot of touch ups.

Radioactive

Energetic Overflow
I like this card. Playing around the first skill was always a ton of fun. Does not go too crazy but thats fine I feel like.
Not every card can be super gau. Good card

Controlled Explosion
Wow the first and 2nd skill are really bad
3rd one is a bad price. 4th one does BIIIIG Dmg.
yeah needs a rework.

Psychonautics.
Damn this card seems really strong.
Cool stuff I like the card

Super gau
cmon. this is THE CARD. Love that shit.
2nd skill is kinda unusable. 
Ivan: "When you take more than 6 dmg gain 2 dice"
That would be insane. something like that needs to be in there.

Destructive shutdown
Ehhhhhhhhhhh. 1st skill is garbage.
3rd skill not great either. 4th skill just does not do that much on this card. Rework.

Atomic split
Love the 1st skill
Yeah this is a cool card. Definitely good enough.
Could be better, but no rework needed right now.

Precise Time
Need to see it in action, but could be really cool.
Combo potential.

Experimental fusion
Cool card. Not much to say here

Accelerated Decay
This card is really nice. Been playing it. Its popping off.
Last skill is really strong. Could maybe be powerup 17/18.
So you cant 1 shot in 1 turn that easily. Having to pay 4 dice for this card makes it a lot more managable for the opponent. However it's cool to kill your opponent. 17 powerup should be good.

Boundless Destruction
BIIIG DAMAGE is nice. The other skills are really cool too.
This card has a lot of action. Really nice. great radioactive card

Overall review:
Radioactive cards are great. The theme is pretty clear.
Take Damage and gain a cool effect. Alos BIIIIG damage.
However decrement is falling short. There should be more possibilities with it. Or more interesting ideas. Decrementing below 1 to gain effects for example.
Eg: Decrement below 1 to remove dice from your roll. At the end of the turn deal dmg for all dice removed. stuff like that.
Maybe Decrementing below 1 should always have that effect?
Or if you dec below 1 gain a new die with value 1. etc.
But overall radioactive cards are cool. I always want to have them.


Void

Interdimensional rift
strong start cool card. Supporting type card. Really nice. (It can combo with super gau)

The other side
Last skill is kinda wonky and could be really frustrating to play against. However it could be really cool to use.

The other side
Last skill is kinda wonky and could be really frustrating to play against. However it could be really cool to use.
Cool interesting.

Banish
That first skill is ...
But I mean you can play around it. If you setup your steps properly.
Card is cool enough I think.

Time leap
Not a big fan of being able to cancel the time travel in the last skill.
Last skill is also a more measured Time Force. Not sure about what to do here

Time Force
Love the time traveling effect. The rest on this is not that crazy
but tiiiiiime travel

Gravitational Pull
Cool card. Does not go tooo crazy, but really solid with some nice ideas and potential attached to it.

Assorted darkness
Cool card

Empty winds
Might be kind of weak.
But overall cool effects. Only gaining +1 Strength until next attack is not that crazy. In fact its bad. Its an extra damage
Shoudl probably be for the turn. In fact I will change it right now.

Past blast
3rd skill is something to be concious about.
Not sure about this removing creature stuff.
Same as with the other side. That just means people cant play.
The effects are definitely interesting tho.
But are they fun...???
Other than that great card with a clear idea.

Beam cannon
BIIIIIG damage. Always nice. I like the card. I want to use it and set it up.

Overall review: 
Yea void is fucking great. Is the idea of void to just have the coolest effects in there? Is that it's type idea?
I think it needs more effects where you can set dice before you roll and then roll afterwards. Maybe or maybe another type should get that. But yeah void is fucking nice.


Overall overall review:
Void > radioactive > crystal > plasma > bubblegum
I do not have the time anymore to cross check these with the creatures but I think the creatures suffer from the same problems as the abilities.
Bubblegum probalby suffers the most and needs a big overhaul to make me excited about getting bubblegum cards.
Plasma creatures are probably cooler than crystal creatures in general.
Plasma should lean more into stun mechanic or do more with FUSE(but what???)
